---
layout: single
title: Beginnings
force_masthead: True
header:
  overlay_image: posts/bye_citybar.jpg
  padding-bottom: 2em
  padding-top: 1em

excerpt: Every journey has to start somewhere. Mine started with a long day driving west.
---

<figure class="align-right" style="width:40%">
  <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/msn_bye.jpg">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/msn_bye.jpg">
  </a>
</figure> 
By the time the sun rose over Madison, Wi
on Sunday, November 20th I had already been up for a while. I had
finished packing the last of my belongings into my sweet van and was
on my way to Short Stack Eatery for a quick breakfast. I had hoped for
one more Yellow C.A.B. at Gotham Bagels, but Short Stack was the only
place open early enough for my schedule. Half an aggressively decent
breakfast burrito later, as I was walking back to my van, I was
greeted with a bright shock of orange and pink above the Capitol as
the morning light caught some low clouds. After over six years in
Madison I thought it was a fitting sendoff and made a welcome final
memory. A few minutes later I was pulling out of the parking lot
behind my old apartment and pointing my wheels out of town.

<figure class="align-left" style="width:70%">
  <a href="{{ site.url}}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/bye_citybar.jpg">
  <img src="{{ site.url}}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/bye_citybar.jpg">
  </a>
</figure>
It's easy to be emotional when venturing off into the unknown, and
during my time in Madison I had made some strong connections to the
city and its people so of course I was sad to leave. The last week had
been spent reveling in the company of my friends and a surprise party
at City Bar a few days before I left made leaving even more
difficult. Still, the excitement of the open road beckoned and there
were a lot of miles ahead, so, with eyes slightly moistened with
memories of the past, off I went.

My first goal was to reach Denver, a mere 1000 miles away. I'm used to
driving long distances and Van Halen had cruise control so I was
hoping it would be an uneventful 14 hours. And uneventful it was. I've
done the DEN - MSN drive both ways and can easily say that, from a
driving point of view, going East is the preferred direction. Views
get better as you head east and each mile traveled increases the
reward. The opposite is true when driving west.

Western Wisconsin's gentle hills and quaint red barns provide
pleasantly pastoral scenes as US 151 winds its way over hills and
along rivers to the border with Iowa. Iowa is a notch or two below
Wisconsin on a scenery scale; it manages a decent representation of
the American heartland, but without the warmth of the dairy state. It
technically has all the right pieces; some farms, some hills, some
small towns America, but it somehow seems more cold, more stark, and
more cynical than its eastern neighbor. Now, I've actually spent some
time in Iowa and know that many of its towns are actually pretty cool,
but from the highways the state leaves much to be desired.

By no fault of it's own Iowa is also where I first got on I-80. Until
Iowa City I had been following US 151 on a nice drive as it wound its
way from town to town across Wisconsin and Iowa. Once on I-80, though,
all illusions of a pleasant Sunday drive disappear. It was probably
about 3/4 of the way to Des Moines that I remembered just how _big_
this country is; hours and hours of the same speed on the same road
certainly get you somewhere, but not as fast as you'd like. Cruise
control rules.

If Iowa is a failed attempt to capture the Midwestern spirit present
in Wisconsin then Nebraska is a lack of any attempt at all. Omaha has
a pretty impressive "Welcome to Nebraska" display with some cool
trains and a big flag, but that's about it. Bob Seger had is
directions wrong when he complained about traveling east of
Omaha. Omaha truly marks the end of the conglomerate of civilization
stretching from the cities of the East; west of the city is the
beginning of the nothing that exists between the somethings on either
cost.

Side note: I had the second worst milkshake of my life at a Wendy's
just west of Omaha proper.

Between Omaha and Lincoln I-80 is an optimistic 3 or 4 lanes wide in
each direction. I wonder if there's ever traffic out here. At this
point the speed limit climbs to 75 mph in recognition of everyone's
desire to get somewhere else as fast as they can. For some parts of
Nebraska the speed limit even gets up to 80 mph, but I found that
going any faster than 80 severely impacted not only the quality of the
ride, but also the fuel economy of Van Halen.

Omaha was the half way point, and not much happened after that. I saw
some snow, it got dark, and eventually I hit I-76 which lead me into
Colorado towards Denver. A few hours later I was in a Walmart parking
lot near the Denver airport eating my first official van dinner and
getting ready for my first official night on the road. The weather in
Denver was nice; probably about 40 or so at night. It ended with
little fanfare, but the first day of my journey was complete.
<figure class="align-center" width="100%">
  <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.basepath }}/images/posts/first_dinner.jpg">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.basepath }}/images/posts/first_dinner.jpg">
  </a>
<figcaption>The first official dinner</figcaption>
</figure>

A few other things I noticed:

* Regarding roads. I-80 in Iowa and Nebraska has a feel that, while
  far from openly hostile, makes no attempt to welcome drivers to its
  surface. Especially after dark I felt that at any moment I could hit
  a patch of bad road or ice and fly off into the bushes. I-76, on the
  other hand, greets travelers to Colorado with smooth, friendly
  asphalt that allows you to glide along as if in a dream. Truly a
  superior road. (This does change a little bit south of Fort Morgan,
  but the first impression was important).

* It did not escape me that the route of I-80 and I-76 west of Lincoln
  followed the same Platte river valley that guided many settlers west
  in the middle of the nineteenth century. Manifest Destiny is still a
  powerful force in the mind of America.

* As expected, I saw a lot of trucks on the interstate. What was
  strange, however, was that a majority of passenger vehicles seemed
  to be driven by painful cliches of old, white men. This is Trump's
  America; they've won and they feel like stepping out.

* Somewhere in the middle of Nebraska I was overwhelmed by some rank
  shit smell. I've driven near stockyards before and am familiar with
  the stank of lots of cows but this was different. It was a
  distinctly acrid miasma that I usually associate with the
  combination of human feces and whatever chemicals they add to
  portable toilets to prevent the spread of dysentery. I'm not saying
  some brave prankster took a monster dump across parts of central
  Nebraska; I'm just saying it smelled like that.