---
title: RMNP/Estes Park
excerpt: Up into the mountains to find good views and good brews.
force_masthead: True
header:
  overlay_image: posts/RMNP-7.jpg
  padding-top: 3em

bear_lake_gallery:
  - url: posts/RMNP-1.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-1.jpg
  - url: posts/RMNP-2.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-2.jpg
deer_mtn_gallery:
  - url: posts/RMNP-3.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-3.jpg
  - url: posts/RMNP-4.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-4.jpg
  - url: posts/RMNP-5.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-5.jpg
  - url: posts/RMNP-6.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-6.jpg
  - url: posts/RMNP-7.jpg
    image_path: posts/RMNP-7.jpg
---

I was on the road to Estes Park (the town just outside Rocky Mountain
National Park) early-ish and driving up CO 93 towards Boulder there
was a lot of high wind coming off the mountains. This made me acutely
aware of the boxy shape of Van Halen and gave me a new found respect
for truckers everywhere. I was just in time to hit rush hour in
Boulder but got on US 36 West without too much difficulty. A few years
ago I spent some time in RMNP with a good friend of mine and at that
point US 36 between Lyons and Estes Park was washed out and under
construction. I think they did a good job because the drive was very
nice and I was literally the only car on the road so I could take my
time enjoying the scenery and the drive.

Heading straight to the RMNP visitor center I got some good beta on
the best winter hikes in the park. It wasn't until I made the drive up
to the Glacier George trail head that I remembered that my friend and I
had hiked literally all of the recommend hikes a few years prior. I
thought about doing one of them again, but it was about 10 degrees and
gusting to 30 mph so I figured I could probably find a better way to
spend my time. Not one to _totally_ waste a drive up to 10,000 feet I
took a very pleasant jaunt around Bear Lake. The spiritual benefits of
wilderness and the outdoors were immediately apparent, and I felt
somehow whole in a way I had forgotten after years of focused
Astronomy and Rock & Roll. It cannot be understated how large the idea
of the _wild_ plays into the core of American identity and here was
one more American digging deep into that wellspring to find a little
personal salvation among the great cathedrals of this nation. All
around me the Sun's rays cut cleanly through the turbulent air to
explode in piercing clarity upon the crystals of freshly fallen snow,
and the lake itself, still wet around the edges, held the center of
this little world and framed every view across its frozen surface with
a silent beauty. The hike was short, but I emerged a man renewed.  {%
include gallery id="bear_lake_gallery" class="half" %}

With spirit buoyed I headed down to the base of Deer Mountain, which
sits near the entrance of the park and provides views of the main
mountains from its peak. To the top was about 3 miles and 1,000 feet
of walking over dirt, then rocks, then snow. Most of the hike was
sheltered by forest and I started sweating pretty quickly. All of this
changed when faced with the freezing wind on the summit and I only
stayed long enough to take some pictures before retreating. To the
west the continental divide was hidden by menacing clouds (even more
of a reason not to go hiking up there), but to the north the Mummy
Range (I think that's right) was beautiful in the midday sun.  {%
include gallery id="deer_mtn_gallery" class="third" %}

After getting back down I headed in to Estes Park to check out the
local scene. When you're the town at the entrance of a National Park
you are bound to be somewhat seasonal and I think I had arrived
between the summer and winter seasons. As such there wasn't much going
on (or maybe it was the biting cold and fierce wind), but I did go to
two of the town's three (I think) breweries. Estes Park Brewery
sucked. The beer was aweful and the guy who gave me a taste didn't
even drink himself. How are you supposed to know your beer is trash if
you don't drink it?

In stark contrast, Rock Cut brewery was amazing. A friendly,
interesting barman, lively atmosphere, and great beer all made my stay
very enjoyable and much too short. If you are ever in Estes Park you
owe it to yourself to check out Rock Cut. I was fortunate enough to
get some Wooden Buffalo, an experimental beer of which only 1 gallon
remained. It was a smoked brown ale that had been aged in an old
Buffalo Trace bourbon barrel. This idea is rare, but certainly not
totally new (Anderson Valley Wild Turkey aged stout comes to
mind). What set the Wooden Buffalo apart was how clear the bourbon
flavor came through. Truly an amazing beer. I'd tell you to get some,
but I helped drink the last of it :).

After sobering up at the library I headed out of the mountains to Fort
Collins for the night. I was sorry to be so brief with Estes Park, but
the low was supposed to be 9 degrees that night and when you're
thinking about those temperatures and extra 10 degrees is worth
driving for. US 36 and 287 were very busy on my way out, but I got to
a Walmart in Fort Collins with little difficulty. I'm excited to check
out the town tomorrow.

Other observations:

* On the way up to Bear Lake there was some packed snow/ice on the
  road which provided a good opportunity to try my hand at slippery
  rear wheel driving. Some throttle experimentation resulted in some
  exciting, but controlled, slides. It's called drifting.

* I had a buffalo (like the actual animal) taco at a place in Estes
  Park. Decent but not very different.
