---
title: Durango
excerpt: A town surrounded by mountains and filled with good spirit(s)
header:
  overlay_image: posts/Durango-8.jpg
  padding-bottom: 4.5em
rock_gallery:
  - url: posts/Durango-2.jpg
    image_path: posts/Durango-2.jpg
  - url: posts/Durango-3.jpg
    image_path: posts/Durango-3.jpg
---

<figure class='align-center' style='width:100%'>
 <a href='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-4.jpg'>
 <img src='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-4.jpg'>
 </a>
 <figcaption>Durango from Sugar Ridge (far left). The Hogsback is partially seen on the right.</figcaption>
</figure>

I arrived in Durango a little after 2 on a very pleasant Sunday
afternoon. My first move was to cruise around the main strip for a bit
before finding a parking spot and doing the same on foot. I then
called a friend of mine who grew up in Durango and he suggested a few
things to do. Most intriguing was a hike up the Hogsback, a very
prominent ridge/mountain directly west of town. I should mention that
Durango is nestled along the Animas river and is totally surrounded by
mountains, which makes for great views in basically any direction. Not
too bad. I visited the welcome center and was informed that the
Hogsback was closed for the season for peregrine falcon nesting. This
was a little disappointing, but I'm not about to get up in some
falcon's business, and the nice clerk gave me many other hikes near
town that I could try instead.

I spent the rest of the afternoon in a coffee shop doing some work and
left around 6 to move Van Halen to a suitably stealthy location on a
dark side street. Fortunately, like Colorado Springs, there were very
few street lights and finding a good spot was not difficult.

<figure class='align-left' style='width:50%'>
 <a href='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-7.jpg'>
 <img src='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-7.jpg'>
 </a>
 <figcaption>Animas Brewing Co.</figcaption>
</figure>

After a quick dinner I moseyed on over to the Animas Brewing
company. There were three breweries downtown that I wanted to check out
and my plan was to get to two of them tonight and save the third for
tomorrow. Things didn't quite go to plan, however, because Animas
Brewing was such a nice place to be that I spent the whole night
there. The beer was adequate in a perfectly comfortable way and the
bartender and patrons were all very friendly.

Everyone in Durango is an outdoor person and knows all about the best
stuff, and these fine folks were no exception. The bartender told me
that Hogsback is never closed for falcon season and showed me how to
get to the trail head. He also confirmed the quality of the alternate
hikes that had been suggested by the welcome center. I was already
formulating big plans for hiking tomorrow!

The man sitting next to me was one of the most interesting people I've
met so far. I don't know what he does now, but he used to be a (spicy)
pepper farmer out in Virginia and we spent quite a while nerding out
over different peppers (although I exhausted my knowledge pretty
quick!). I mentioned that I'd be heading through Cortez, CO fairly
soon and he told me to check out a place called
"Pepperhead". Apparently they have the best damn stuffed jalapenos
this side of anywhere. He also had high praise for a sushi restaurant
in Cortez staffed by an amateur pepper farmer. I'm wasn't so sure
about sushi in southwest Colorado, but I admitted to a piqued
interest.

Before I knew it, it was closing time and time to head back to Van
Halen. To maximize stealth I didn't use any lights and was comfortable
and cozy in bed in no time.

I woke up early the next morning with plans to hike both the eastern
ridge (I think it's called Sugar ridge?) above the city and the
Hogsback (to the west). On the way to the Sugar ridge trail head I
picked up my first hitch-hiker! She only needed a lift up to Fort
Lewis college (which is above town and just below Sugar ridge), so it
was a short drive but still pretty fun. I asked her for some local
wisdom and she recommended a place called the Thai Kitchen, which I
added to my mental list.

<figure class='align-left' style='width:40%'>
 <a href='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-1.jpg'>
 <img src='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-1.jpg'>
 </a>
 <figcaption>Decorated rock on Sugar Ridge trail</figcaption>
</figure>

The hike up and along the ridge was quite nice. One of the first turns
I took put me face to face with an unusually festive rock right off
the trail. Clear evidence for the cultural symbiosis between man and
mountain. It was an overcast day, but the temperature was good and the
views over the whole city and into the surrounding mountains made it
all worth it. On the way back I tried to really push myself hard, but
was frustrated by a trail that was almost completely ice. The welcome
center had warned me about mud, but that would have been preferable to
ice. At least you stick to mud! Despite the slick conditions I was
able to hike hard enough that (after 3+ hours hiking) I was tired
enough to abandon aspirations of the Hogsback. If the trail was
anything like what I had just done it was better to save it for
another day anyway.  {% include gallery id='rock_gallery' class='half'
%}

<figure class='align-right' style='width:50%'>
 <a href='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-5.jpg'>
 <img src='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-5.jpg'>
 </a>
 <figcaption>The Animas River through downtown</figcaption>
</figure>
<figure class='align-left' style='width:50%'>
 <a href='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-6.jpg'>
 <img src='{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Durango-6.jpg'>
 </a>
 <figcaption>Very good Vodka</figcaption>
</figure>

Thus defeated I headed to the library to do some work. Durango has
easily the best library I've been to so far and I stayed there a long
time. I broke up my studies with a walk along the Animas river trail,
which goes right through town. On the way back I stopped by a local
distillery (not a brewery this time!) and had some vodka that totally
knocked my socks off. I usually don't like any type of vodka, but this
stuff had awesome flavor and was very very smooth. I'm glad I stopped
in!

After working/walking I decided to trust local knowledge and go to the
Thai Kitchen. Guess who the server was! My morning hitchhiker. Now I
see why she recommended it. The food was about all I could expect for
Thai food in Colorado and was very spicy.

The rest of the night was spent at Carver Brewing Co. Compared to
Animas this place was much more of a restaurant type place and the
beer was highly mediocre. After one beer I was completely exhausted
and decided to skip the third brewery and just go straight
"home". Sleep greeted me like a lover in an empty bed.