---
title: Napavine
excerpt: Sometimes you brake down in the middle of nowhere and have to sleep in a auto shop's parking lot
header:
  overlay_image: posts/Napa-1.jpg
  padding_bottom: 4em
gallery:
  - url: posts/Napa-1.jpg
    image_path: posts/Napa-1.jpg
  - url: posts/Napa-2.jpg
    image_path: posts/Napa-2.jpg
---

In what I hoped to be my triumphant return to The Road I decided to
head up towards Seattle, so on a wonderfully sunny morning I drove up
I-280, onto 19th Ave, across the Golden Gate bridge, and onto US 101
heading north. On my way out of town I stopped in at the Boudin bakery
to pick up some oh-so-wonderful sourdough for the days ahead. Yum!

Just outside Cloverdale I split out onto CA 128 towards the coast. The
road wound its way through hills covered in vineyards and pastures
that were almost comically lush and green from all of the recent
rain. Soon I found CA 1 and started winding my way up the coast. Just
south of Ft. Bragg I stopped at the Cabrillo Pt. Light Station and
went for a walk through some trees and sage to the edge of the
continent. The weather was absolutely perfect and the deep blue of the
ocean, highlighted by brilliant white where it came up against the tan
rocks, contrasted wonderfully with the green of the coastal
plants. All of the colors seemed super saturated and I felt like I was
living inside an old Kodachrome slide.

{% include gallery id="gallery" class="half" caption="Scenes along the coast" %}

After Ft. Bragg I had to take some mountain roads to avoid closures on
CA 1, but easily made it up through Eureka and on to Crescent City,
where I spent the night in a Walmart parking lot.

I awoke too early the next morning, care of some very loud lawn
mowers, and was soon on US 199, into Oregon, and onto I-5 heading
toward Seattle. There's not much to say about Oregon, it rained a lot
and was very grey besides. A few hours later I was in Washington.

Right around mile marker 66 in Washington things got a bit
interesting. With basically no warning Van Halen's engine shuddered
and died right on the interstate. With the engine dead the brakes and
power steering stopped working, but I was luckily able to maneuver to
the safety of the shoulder. I certainly felt like I was in the middle
of nowhere, but my helpful insurance agent was able to arrange towing
to a shop only a few miles away, in Napavine, WA. It turned out the
shop actually was in the middle of nowhere, but the very nice owner
said I could sleep in the parking lot and they would try to fix Van
Halen the next morning. Fortunately, a complete failure like I had
experienced is usually caused by something obvious so we were
optimistic that I would back on the road soon.

The Astros are notorious for a difficult to access engine and to save
some diagnostic time the next day I took it upon myself to remove the
engine cover, which is actually _inside_ the van. Check it out: Weird.

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Napa-3.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Napa-3.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>Yes, that's the engine inside the cockpit</figcaption>
</figure>

To cut to the chase, the problem was a bad crank sensor that was
replaced by 10 am the next day and I was in Seattle not long after
that. Sometimes bad things happen, and plans rarely survive contact
with reality. But on the other hand, the word is full of good people
and solvable problems so things usually work out OK.