---
title: Baseball
excerpt: Smuggling booze into a America's pastime
header:
  overlay_image: posts/Bb-1.jpg
---

After leaving [Death Valley]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl
}}/posts/2017-03-22-Death-Valley) I watched a lot of baseball. This
post is about that, but also heavily features tales of close calls and
victories as a member of a beer smuggling operation.

The day I left Death Valley I met up with my brother in Mojave and we
drove the 1.5 hours into LA to watch the World Baseball Classic (WBC)
semifinal between USA and Japan. It was raining and we were soaked and
cold, but a love for The Game buoyed our spirits and we had a good
time breaking the baseball dry-spell that always makes winters a
little extra cold. The stands of Dodger Stadium were full of Japanese
fans and the overall atmosphere was much livelier than what American
baseball fans expect. I would put it more on par with a European or
South American soccer match; all the fans cheered in unison and they
were backed up by a brass section somewhere in the bleachers. The
Japanese cheers made our "U.S.A! U.S.A!" chants seem pretty amateur,
but there was a friendly spirit in the air and no one seemed to get
really upset when USA beat Japan.

The next morning I went down to San Diego for a few days before
driving out to Phoenix to join some friends on an annual pilgrimage to
baseball spring training. Watching baseball and drinking beer were the
orders of the weekend and we did our best to combine the two whenever
possible. In years past we had a simple, but effective strategy for
getting our own beers inside the parks: hide a few in a balled-up
jacket or something in your backpack and put a couple in your
underwear (just make sure you practice your walk before you get to the
gate). Before the first game (at Hohokam Stadium), however, this
strategy failed so badly that it is worth recording for future
generations. The crux of the problem is that the parks now had metal
detectors, which resulted in three disastrous attempts to get beer
past the gates:

I was the first through and was literally stepping into the metal
detector when it occurred to me that the beer in my pants would
probably set it off. It did and my mind immediately started racing to
come up with a way to explain the metal in my crotch. I quickly patted
my pocket, gave and exasperated look to the security guard, and
explained that I had foolishly left my small pocket knife in my
pocket. I apologized profusely and asked if I could go put it back in
my car. Fortunately he at least pretended to believe me and lead me to
an exit where I got a stamp so I could come back in. I then walked out
into the parking lot and hid behind a car while chugging the offending
beer. On the way back through I still had to run the gauntlet of beers
in my backpack, but the lady who checked my backpack before had been
distracted by the metal detector debacle and when she saw me a second
time she assumed she had already looked through my backpack and
therefore only gave it a passing glance the second time around. So, in
the end I made it through with one beer in my gut and two in my
backpack.

While all this was happening a series of greater dramas was unfolding
without my knowledge. The second of our group through (we'll call him
"Shaun") had some beers in his pockets and some hidden in a bag of
sunflower seeds. The seeds made it past inspection no problem, but he
had witnessed my failure at the metal detector and made the quick
decision to come clean rather than risk apprehension. Before walking
through the detector he nonchalantly placed his beers on the table and
continued through. I'm not sure what the security guards thought, but
they let him go without any harassment. Shaun had smuggled two beers
through.

Finally, my brother experienced perhaps the greatest drama of all. He,
like me, was concealing beers between his legs and in his
backpack. The guard checking his backpack was much more thorough than
mine and his account of her repeatedly plunging her arm deep into his
pack to reveal can after can of Rolling Rock makes me want to be an
ACLU lawyer. He was already caught, but by this time he had also been
ratted out by the metal detector. What followed was apparently a
shot-for-shot remake of the [cucumber
scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAargSCXQaQ) from "This is
Spinal Tap". They asked if he had a belt (no, he lifted his shirt to
show them), any implants (no), and each time the wand buzzed over his
crotch my brother came closer to cracking. Amazingly, the security
guard cracked first and allowed him to go despite his strangely
metallic groin. My brother was also allowed to simply return his
backpack beers to the car so he did and drank one in the parking
lot. When he came back through he left nothing to chance and was
completely clean.

All three of us had been caught and the experience left us badly
shaken. When the rest of our compatriots arrived and heard the story
we resolved to spend the next morning working on better ways to sneak
beer into the stadia of spring training. Building off what we had
learned during the failure described above we decided that, due to
metal detectors, no beers could be smuggled on our
persons. Furthermore, clear plastic grocery bags filled with newly
bought items received almost no scrutiny from security, so it would be
best to hid all of the beer in food or food related packaging.

The next day we were ready as we approached the security check at Salt
River Fields and we made it through completely undetected with 16
beers. The breakdown is as follows:

* 3 Pringles cans with 2 beers each. We kept the seal to make them look unopened

* 1 large bag of peanuts with 3 beers hidden inside

* 4 bags of sunflower seeds, each with 1 beer

* 1 loaf of fresh bread, hollowed out to hide 3 beers

The result was an impromptu master class in beer smuggling put on for
the fans seated around us. The bread received particularly strong
praise from our admirers.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nPPurmaS-GI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br><br>
There's not much else to say about the rest of the weekend. As
promised we watched a lot of baseball and drank a lot of beer. In most
of the games the Good Guys won and we were all excited for the regular
season to start in a week. Here's a video from the same event a few
years ago. Not much has changed:
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VGFI22MydeE" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
