---
title: Bisbee
excerpt: New Year's in America's friendliest town
header:
  overlay_image: posts/Bisbee-2.jpg
stair_gallery:
  - url: posts/Bisbee-3.jpg
    image_path: posts/Bisbee-3.jpg
  - url: posts/Bisbee-4.jpg
    image_path: posts/Bisbee-4.jpg
  - url: posts/Bisbee-6.jpg
    image_path: posts/Bisbee-6.jpg
  - url: posts/Bisbee-7.jpg
    image_path: posts/Bisbee-7.jpg
---

I woke up with the Sun after a warm night spent without the need for
my usual insulating materials (i.e., blinds). Before hitting the road
in earnest I drove a few miles farther into the wilderness to the Hot
Well Dunes recreation area; the draw of hot springs is is great in the
dirtbag mind. Much to my surprise, this recreation area is a very
popular OHV location and was packed with huge RV's and associated
fleets of dune buggies, dirt bikes, and quads of all kinds. The hot
springs themselves were built up and had concrete tubs to contain the
hot water. "Hot" in this case is a very generous term; the water felt
nice when transitioning from the cool air of a desert morning, but I
soon realized these hot springs were more like the "30 minute old bath
water" springs. Still, warmer than nothing, and the price was right.

<figure class="align-left" style="width:50%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-1.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-1.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>The famous OK Corral in Tombstone</figcaption>
</figure>

By happy coincidence my detour to the hot springs was more of an
alternate route and I was soon on I-10 heading west from Bowie
(pronounced "boo-ee" out here). In Benson, AZ I turned on to AZ 80
towards Tombstone and Bisbee. I stopped in Tombstone (yes, *that*
Tombstone) for lunch and walked around long enough to determine that
it was a tourist trap of the purest kind. I'll be your huckleberry.

<figure class="align-right" style="width:50%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-2.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-2.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>Proper hippy art tucked away down a side street</figcaption>
</figure>

Not long after lunch I cruised into Bisbee and immediately found a
most excellent parking spot with no limit in a lot right downtown. I
took this to be a good sign. My legs got stretched with a short jaunt
around the main downtown area and I noticed a general air of hipness
emanating from the art galleries and boutiques that lined the main
streets. I stopped in at the grocer's to replenish my supplies but to
my surprise they didn't have any beans (canned or dried). I brought
this up with the clerk and he muttered something under his breath
about the passions of youthful jealousy. I knew better than to press
him further; small towns like this have deep secrets and long
memories.

After a dinner of leftover rice and beans I decided to treat myself to
some sweets at a nearby gelato place. The couple running it were very
welcoming and friendly and gave me a lot of advice on things to do/see
in town. At the time I thought they were exceptionally hospitable;
little did I know this was the norm in Bisbee.

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-5.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-5.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>The main section of downtown Bisbee</figcaption>
</figure>

Feeling fine with a belly full of honey and coffee gelato I sauntered
over to the Old Bisbee Brewing company to sample the local
grog. Without planning to I, over this and tomorrow (new year's)
evening, ended up drinking all of the beers they made and can easily
say there was not a dud among them. Not every beer at every brewery
needs to try too hard; not every beer needs to be exceptional or
unique and I think the best thing I can say about the Old Bisbee
Brewing Co. is that all of their beers were simply good. Their divine
Mayan Stout and interesting Salut (a "wheat wine") stood out, as did
their home brewed (!) root beer, but every choice on the menu was easy
to drink, easy to like, and easy to make new friends over. Nice job,
folks.

The bartendress at OBBC sensed the dirtbag vibe and gave me and my
drinking companion all of the leftover food from the kitchen. Upon
further inquiry it was revealed that she too lived out of an old
Astro; a true kindred spirit. Her van's paint job was arguably flyer
than mine (white with blue pinstripes), but, although she claimed it
was also a '99, the headlight style gave it away as a more senior
member of the venerable Astro family. We'll call it a draw.

<figure class="align-left" style="width:50%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-8.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Bisbee-8.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>A part of Brewery Gulch. OBBC is featured.</figcaption>
</figure>

As I stumbled out of the OBBC I soaked up and appreciated the vibe
that hung in Brewery Gulch (the local "strip"). Live music echoed
down the canyon walls from multiple venues and mingled with the lively
conversation and laughter of people hanging out on the streets in
between. I was reminded of a very very tiny slice of Nashville and was
filled with excitement for the following night's revelry.

The next morning began with the pitter-patter of a light drizzle and
after I was convinced it had passed I woke up and went exploring. The
streets in Bisbee are amazing in their chaotic arrangement; the whole
town drips down a mountain canyon and its layout is dictated by nature
rather than man. Hidden among the streets are a legion of staircases
that run along the sides of houses and through backyards as they
connect streets at different levels. It seemed that there are a lot of
houses that can only be accessed by these steep staircases. The whole
effect was not something you seen in America very often and was very
pleasant. On the recommendation of a local chicken farmer I left the
streets to hike up a canyon to the ridge above town. I took the ridge
all the way back to downtown and arrived just in time for a lunch I
felt I had earned.

{% include gallery id="stair_gallery" class="half" caption="Some of the many, many staircases" %}

After an afternoon working at a local coffee shop I prepped for the
evening by having a greasy dinner at The Quarry. The local favorite
was grilled cheese stuffed with meatloaf and bacon; a dish I'm not
sure needed to exist, but that was adequate for my purposes. I started
the imbibement at Room 4, a tiny tiny bar that claimed to be Arizona's
(the country's?)  smallest bar. I met a nice couple from L.A. who were
camping around and looking for things to do near Tucson. I recommended
the incomparable Sonoran Desert Museum and they made the correct
choice by being interested. After this it was back to OBBC where I met
a local photographer named Roland. He was extremely nice and
interesting and became my companion/ambassador for the night. I say
ambassador because everywhere we went people were saying hi and having
conversations with him. Now that I mention it, this was a common
occurrence during my stay in Bisbee; everyone seems to know everyone
and all the locals are very welcoming to outsiders.

In any case, we greeted the new year with the bleary eyes and stupid
grins of a town content with its place in the world. The crowds
thinned slightly in the first hours of 2017, but I, imbued with the
power of 101 wild turkeys, danced until the band gave up and made us
go home. I went to bed drunk and happy.

My first act of the next morning was to head out of town towards
Texas. As the miles between me and Bisbee grew longer I realized that
it might be my favorite town so far. It is just big enough to have a
good variety things to do, but was small enough to be approachable both
physically and spiritually. Add to that a wonderfully friendly
populace and interesting architecture and you've got yourself a real
winner. It strikes the perfect mean between Sedona and Jerome; not a
trace of snoot in its hipness but big enough you might actually live
there. Or maybe it feels like Santa Fe when the Sun is up and a tiny
Nashville when the Sun is down. Or maybe it just feels like Bisbee.

Other thoughts:

* New Year's even was the first true "zero" day of my trip. Because of
  the excellent parking I didn't have to move Van Halen one atom while
  in Bisbee.