---
title: Natural Bridges / Bears Ears
header:
  overlay_image: posts/Brbe-3.jpg
  padding-bottom: 4em

excerpt: A return to Cedar Mesa

hite_gallery:
  - url: posts/Brbe-1.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-1.jpg
  - url: posts/Brbe-2.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-2.jpg

sipapu_gallery:
  - url: posts/Brbe-4.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-4.jpg
  - url: posts/Brbe-5.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-5.jpg

kachina_gallery:
  - url: posts/Brbe-6.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-6.jpg
  - url: posts/Brbe-7.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-7.jpg
  - url: posts/Brbe-8.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-8.jpg

owachomo_gallery:
  - url: posts/Brbe-9.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-9.jpg
  - url: posts/Brbe-10.jpg
    image_path: posts/Brbe-10.jpg

---

After a somewhat lazy morning on the edge of [Capitol Reef]({{
site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/posts/2017-04-14-Capitol-Reef) I was back
on UT 24 heading east toward Hanksville. I suppose the landscape out
here is all the same in the end: mesas, buttes, cliffs, fields, etc.,
but somehow it manages to be amazing and awe-inspiring every time.
Very nice.

Hanksville was smaller than expected but I still managed to find a
store to stock up on supplies (I had run out of granola for
breakfast). Or, at least I _would_ have stocked up on supplies if the
internet _for the entire town_ wasn't down. I couldn't use a card and
the (one) ATM was also down, so I had to set out back into the desert
un-supplied. Oh, the wonders of the computer age!

My path took me onto UT 95 east and I realized that I had driven this
road in the other direction when coming back from a float down the San
Juan 7 years ago. The first of many trips to this area I'm sure! As I
headed towards the Colorado river the scenery was simply breathtaking.
From high planes flanked by volcanic upswells to deep gorges choked
with juniper and pine, this road was as notable for its red rocks as
it was for its loneliness. Finally I could feel a little bit of
isolation.

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-3.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-3.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>Views of UT 95</figcaption>
</figure>

UT 95 crosses the Colorado at Hite and the nearby overlook provided
seemingly infinite views out cross the canyon lands that make up this
portion of the plateau.

{% include gallery id="hite_gallery" class="half" caption="The Colorado River near Hite" %}

# Natural Bridges

Once across the Colorado the road climbed deliberately up to the top
of Cedar Mesa ([I'm back!]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl
}}/posts/2016-12-16-VotG)), and here, in the shadow of the Bears Ears,
I found Natural Bridges NM. Given how empty the roads were I was
surprised to find a very well built visitor center and a good number
of people out exploring the monument. The main attraction is, of
course, the natural bridges, of which there are three main ones that
most people go to. I originally planned to do a ranger-recommend loop
from Sipapu Bridge to Kachina Bridge and back, but on the descent down
to Sipapu Bridge my knees felt worn out from previous days' exertions
and I abandoned to loop idea to instead drive to each bridge and do
the corresponding out-and-back trail. The net total was still about 3
miles, so I didn't feel _that_ lazy.

Each of the three bridges was quite different than the others and I
could not pick a favorite. Sipapu is grand and strong and imposing; it
is perhaps the most picturesque of the three.

{% include gallery id="sipapu_gallery" class="half" caption="Sipapu Bridge" %}

Kachina, who straddles not one, but _two_ streams is the newbie of the
bunch, but is completely captivating as you stand sheltered in its
cooling shadow.

{% include gallery id="kachina_gallery" class="third" caption="Kachina
Bridge, right hand picture shows the bridge from up on top of Cedar
Mesa" %}

Finally, Owachomo is thin and delicate; ancient and wise. The dry
slickrock beneath it tells of much older times.

{% include gallery id="owachomo_gallery" class="half"
caption="Owachomo Bridge" %}

# Bears Ears

Natural Bridges is surrounded by the very-newly-formed Bears Ears NM,
so named for a pair of mesas that look like the ears of a bear rising
up from behind the horizon.

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-11.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-11.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>The Bears Ears</figcaption>
</figure>

This monument basically fills in the triangle formed by the Colorado
and San Juan rivers and US 191. Back in [December]({{ site.url }}{{
site.baseurl }}/posts/2016-12-16-VotG) I was in this area and even
then it wasn't a National Monument! Returning after such a short time
away to this newly protected place made me feel like I was somehow
participating in an important part of conservation history. (NOTE:
[see below]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl
}}/posts/2017-04-15-Bridge-Ears#a-call-to-action))

After Natural Bridges it was only 10 miles down UT 95 to Mule Canyon,
which has a nice hike I had been looking forward to for a long
time. The canyon was lush with life and the scent of sage and pine was
intoxicating. The abundance of flowers along the damp creek bed made
the late-afternoon stroll feel like paradise and at one point I passed
a flowering Manzanita that was vibrating and humming with the busy
work of a multitude of bees.

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-13.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-13.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>The lush, riparian zone of Mule Canyon</figcaption>
</figure>

Also in Mule Canyon is the much-photographed House On Fire, a cliff
dwelling who's rock ceiling gives the appearance of flames billowing
from the roof. When I arrived the light was just about perfect so I
couldn't help take a snap or two:

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-12.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-12.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>The House On Fire</figcaption>
</figure>

Camp for the night was only another 4-5 miles down the road at the
base of Comb Ridge in the Comb Wash dispersed camping area. There were
a lot of RV's here, but I managed to find a nice spot beneath a grand
old cottonwood tree. It was no accident that I chose to camp here, a
mere 20 or so miles from where I was
[almost exactly four months ago]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl
}}/posts/2016-12-16-VotG#comb-ridge). It was a good night for
reflection.

<figure class="align-center" style="width:100%">
 <a href="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-14.jpg">
 <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/images/posts/Brbe-14.jpg">
 </a>
 <figcaption>Comb Ridge</figcaption>
</figure>

# Errata

* Hite sucks. Does Ed Abbey appreciate the irony that Hite Marina,
  which marked the drowned town of Hite, is now itself dying because
  the waters of Lake Powell are too low?

* Some people I met at Comb Wash spoke with surprisingly passionate
  intensity as they described how cool downtown Grand Junction is. Who
  knew!

# A Call To Action

As I mentioned above, the Bears Ears National Monument is super super
new; it was basically the last thing Obama did while in office. His
decision to set aside these lands for protection as a monument was
based on a years-long campaign by local coalition that included a
wide range of voices from outdoor enthusiasts to off-roaders to local
tribal leaders and everyone in between. To get an idea of how much
work the Obama administration did to understand all sides of the issue
(because it was - and still is - somewhat divisive), consider that
they sent people all the way from Washington to a packed town-hall
meeting in Bluff, UT. Bluff is basically as far from Washington as you
can get, so you know they cared about getting it right.

Unfortunately, there are some greedy punks in Utah (i.e., the
governor) who want that land back in their greasy little hands so they
can sell mineral rights to companies who would seek to rip apart the
top of Cedar Mesa and the surrounding canyon lands. As such they
petitioned President Trump to not only overturn the designation of
Bears Ears, but also to shrink the size of the
[Grand Staircase/Escalante National Monument]({{ site.url }}{{
site.baseurl }}/posts/2017-04-12-Escalante) to a quarter of its
current size. The governor is misleading Washington about the
consensus that was built to establish Bears Ears and ignoring the
voices coming from his own state.

On April 26th President Trump instructed the Secretary of the Interior
to re-examine all national monuments formed since 1996 in a clear
attempt to take Bears Ears and GSENM from the American People and put
them in the hands of a few, specific interests.

Even if you're not into the diversity of beauty and soul-filling power
of these environments you should still be mad that the leadership in
Utah is trying to take something from all of us to give it to a few
people. This is not a Utah issue: these lands belong to _you_ and now
someone is trying to take them away from you.

If you want to do something about it here are some tips:

* Call Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and tell him that you like having
  access to cool lands and that you want them protected. His number is
  (202) 208-7351.

* Check out the
  [Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance](https://suwa.org/). They are very
  active in the politics of land preservation and are perhaps leading
  the charge to save these monuments.

* Tell other people about this! Like I said above, this is an issue
  that affects all Americans. As I've said many times already the
  presence of wilderness is crucial to the survival of the American
  psyche. Don't let these vicious, greedy punks ruin your soul.
