---
layout: single
permalink: /pole/psych_eval
title: The Psych Evaluation
excerpt: Crazy people apparently don't do well at the Pole. Am I crazy? Let's find out via multiple choice!
parent: Pole Prep
---

Well, it's literally my third day on the job and they've already got
me flying off to Denver to get my head checked. The NSF (National
Science Foundation) requires that all winterovers undergo a
psychological evaluation and apparently there is only one
pshychiatrist's office in the whole world that is authorized to do
these. That means a really quick trip for me and my counterpart Erik;
fly in Wednesday, take the test and fly out Thursday.

The test itself consistsed of two multiple choice questionaires and a
brief in-person interview. The multiple choice sections were notable
for their mind-numbing length (~500 questions total) and their
occasionally bizzare questions. Some of my favorites: "Do you think
you'd like being a librarian?", "do you feel you have evil spirits
inside of you?", "do you sometimes feel someone else controls your
actions?", "If you were a journalist would you rather cover theater or
sports?", and the ever-popular "I certainly feel uselss at times".

After that it was into an office with a psychiatrist where I was asked
a standard set of questions. Mostly things like "do you get along with
your familiy?", "how do you manage stress?", but there were a few
oddballs; for example, "what do you look like when you're angry" (I
actually tried to make my angry face), and "have you ever had illegal
sex?" (wouldn't *you* like to know). It was all over in less than 10
minutes.

While we were waiting for the in-person interviews I had a chance to
meet some of my fellow winterovers-to-be (assuming I pass the psych
eval!). These guys will be running a NOAA station down at the pole and
one of them just got done with a posting in American Samoa; quite the
change in scenery!

Once the interveiew was done all I had to do was grab some very
delicious fruit candies that were in bowls scattered throughout the
office and head back to the airport.